---
icon: material-symbols-light:output
---

# Response

> Utilities to send response headers and data

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/response.ts" -->

### `appendHeader(event, name, value)`

Append a response header by name.

### `appendHeaders(event, headers)`

Append the response headers.

### `appendResponseHeader(event, name, value)`

Append a response header by name.

### `appendResponseHeaders(event, headers)`

Append the response headers.

### `clearResponseHeaders(event, headerNames?)`

Remove all response headers, or only those specified in the headerNames array.

### `defaultContentType(event, type?)`

Set the response status code and message.

### `getResponseHeader(event, name)`

Alias for `getResponseHeaders`.

### `getResponseHeaders(event)`

Get the response headers object.

### `getResponseStatus(event)`

Get the current response status code.

### `getResponseStatusText(event)`

Get the current response status message.

### `isStream(data)`

Checks if the data is a stream. (Node.js Readable Stream, React Pipeable Stream, or Web Stream)

### `isWebResponse(data)`

Checks if the data is a Response object.

### `removeResponseHeader(event, name)`

Remove a response header by name.

### `send(event, data?, type?)`

Directly send a response to the client.
**Note:** This function should be used only when you want to send a response directly without using the `h3` event. Normaly you can directly `return` a value inside event handlers.

### `sendIterable(event, iterable, serializer)`

Iterate a source of chunks and send back each chunk in order. Supports mixing async work toghether with emitting chunks.
Each chunk must be a string or a buffer.
For generator (yielding) functions, the returned value is treated the same as yielded values.

**Example:**

```ts
sendIterable(event, work());
async function* work() {
  // Open document body
  yield "<!DOCTYPE html>\n<html><body><h1>Executing...</h1><ol>\n";
  // Do work ...
  for (let i = 0; i < 1000) {
    await delay(1000);
    // Report progress
    yield `<li>Completed job #`;
    yield i;
    yield `</li>\n`;
  }
  // Close out the report
  return `</ol></body></html>`;
}
async function delay(ms) {
  return new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, ms));
}
```

### `sendNoContent(event, code?)`

Respond with an empty payload.<br>
Note that calling this function will close the connection and no other data can be sent to the client afterwards.

### `sendRedirect(event, location, code)`

Send a redirect response to the client.
It adds the `location` header to the response and sets the status code to 302 by default.
In the body, it sends a simple HTML page with a meta refresh tag to redirect the client in case the headers are ignored.

### `sendStream(event, stream)`

Send a stream response to the client.
Note: You can directly `return` a stream value inside event handlers alternatively which is recommended.

### `sendWebResponse(event, response)`

Send a Response object to the client.

### `setHeader(event, name, value)`

Set a response header by name.

### `setHeaders(event)`

Set the response headers.

### `setResponseHeader(event, name, value)`

Set a response header by name.

### `setResponseHeaders(event)`

Set the response headers.

### `setResponseStatus(event, code?, text?)`

Set the response status code and message.

### `writeEarlyHints(event, hints, cb)`

Write `HTTP/1.1 103 Early Hints` to the client.

<!-- /automd -->
