---
icon: mingcute:plus-line
---

# Advanced

> More utilities

## Session utils

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/session.ts" -->

### `clearSession(event, config)`

Clear the session data for the current request.

### `getSession(event, config)`

Get the session for the current request.

### `sealSession(event, config)`

Encrypt and sign the session data for the current request.

### `unsealSession(_event, config, sealed)`

Decrypt and verify the session data for the current request.

### `updateSession(event, config, update?)`

Update the session data for the current request.

### `useSession(event, config)`

Create a session manager for the current request.

<!-- /automd -->

## Cookie utils

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/cookie.ts" -->

### `deleteCookie(event, name, serializeOptions?)`

Remove a cookie by name.

### `getCookie(event, name)`

Get a cookie value by name.

### `parseCookies(event)`

Parse the request to get HTTP Cookie header string and returning an object of all cookie name-value pairs.

### `setCookie(event, name, value, options?)`

Set a cookie value by name.

<!-- /automd -->

## Fingerprint utils

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/fingerprint.ts" -->

### `getRequestFingerprint(event, opts)`

Get a unique fingerprint for the incoming request.

<!-- /automd -->

## WebSocket utils

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/ws.ts" -->

### `defineWebSocket(hooks)`

Define WebSocket hooks.

### `defineWebSocketHandler(hooks)`

Define WebSocket event handler.

<!-- /automd -->

## Sanitize

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/sanitize.ts" -->

### `sanitizeStatusCode(statusCode?, defaultStatusCode)`

Make sure the status code is a valid HTTP status code.

### `sanitizeStatusMessage(statusMessage)`

Make sure the status message is safe to use in a response.

Allowed characters: horizontal tabs, spaces or visible ascii characters: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7230#section-3.1.2

<!-- /automd -->

## Base

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/base.ts" -->

### `withBase(base, input)`

Returns a new event handler that removes the base url of the event before calling the original handler.

**Example:**

```ts
const api = new H3()
 .get("/", () => "Hello API!");
const app = new H3();
 .use("/api/**", withBase("/api", api.handler));
```

<!-- /automd -->

## Cache

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/cache.ts" -->

### `handleCacheHeaders(event, opts)`

Check request caching headers (`If-Modified-Since`) and add caching headers (Last-Modified, Cache-Control) Note: `public` cache control will be added by default

<!-- /automd -->

## Proxy

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/proxy.ts" -->

### `fetchWithEvent(event, req, init?, options?: { fetch: F })`

Make a fetch request with the event's context and headers.

### `getProxyRequestHeaders(event, opts?: { host? })`

Get the request headers object without headers known to cause issues when proxying.

### `proxy(event, target, opts)`

Make a proxy request to a target URL and send the response back to the client.

### `proxyRequest(event, target, opts)`

Proxy the incoming request to a target URL.

<!-- /automd -->

## CORS

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/cors.ts" -->

### `appendCorsHeaders(event, options)`

Append CORS headers to the response.

### `appendCorsPreflightHeaders(event, options)`

Append CORS preflight headers to the response.

### `handleCors(event, options)`

Handle CORS for the incoming request.

If the incoming request is a CORS preflight request, it will append the CORS preflight headers and send a 204 response.

If return value is `true`, the request is handled and no further action is needed.

**Example:**

```ts
const app = new H3();
const router = createRouter();
router.use("/", async (event) => {
  const corsRes = handleCors(event, {
    origin: "*",
    preflight: {
      statusCode: 204,
    },
    methods: "*",
  });
  if (corsRes) {
    return corsRes;
  }
  // Your code here
});
```

### `isCorsOriginAllowed(origin, options)`

Check if the incoming request is a CORS request.

### `isPreflightRequest(event)`

Check if the incoming request is a CORS preflight request.

<!-- /automd -->

## Server Sent Events (SSE)

<!-- automd:jsdocs src="../../src/utils/event-stream.ts" -->

### `createEventStream(event, opts?)`

Initialize an EventStream instance for creating [server sent events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events/Using_server-sent_events)

**Example:**

```ts
import { createEventStream, sendEventStream } from "h3";

app.get("/sse", (event) => {
  const eventStream = createEventStream(event);

  // Send a message every second
  const interval = setInterval(async () => {
    await eventStream.push("Hello world");
  }, 1000);

  // cleanup the interval and close the stream when the connection is terminated
  eventStream.onClosed(async () => {
    console.log("closing SSE...");
    clearInterval(interval);
    await eventStream.close();
  });

  return eventStream.send();
});
```

<!-- /automd -->
