---
icon: ph:book-open-duotone
---

# Getting Started

> Getting started with h3

## Overview

h3 (short for HTTP, pronounced as /eɪtʃθriː/, like h-3) is a lightweight and [composable](/utils) server framework for JavaScript that is designed to
work with various javascript runtimes through [adapters](/adapters).

::read-more{to="https://nitro.unjs.io"}
Check out [Nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io) for a full featured server toolkit.
::

## Quick Start

Create a new file `app.ts` (or `app.js`):

```ts [app.ts]
// Import h3 as npm dependency
import { createApp, createRouter, eventHandler } from "h3";

// Create an app instance
export const app = createApp();

// Create a new router and register it in app
const router = createRouter();
app.use(router);

// Add a new route that matches GET requests to / path
router.get(
  "/",
  eventHandler((event) => {
    return { message: "⚡️ Tadaa!" };
  }),
);
```

Now run the development server using [unjs/listhen](https://listhen.unjs.io):

```sh
npx --yes listhen -w --open ./app.ts
```

> [!TIP]
> You don't need to install any additional dependency. Listhen has a preinstalled version of h3!

And tadaa! We have a web server running locally.

### What happend?

Okay, let's now break down our hello world example:

We first created an [app instance](/guide/app) using `createApp()`. `app` is a tiny server capable of matching requests, generating response and handling lifecycle hooks (such as errors):

```ts
export const app = createApp();
```

Then we create a [router instance](/guide/router) that can match route patterns and http methods using [unjs/radix3](https://radix3.unjs.io) and register it for app as main handler:

```ts
const router = createRouter();

app.use(router);
```

Now it it time to add our first endpoint. In h3, request handlers can be defined using `defineEventHandler` or `eventHandler` helpers (they are aliases). Using wrappers, h3 can supercharge your code with better typehints and future compatibility.

```ts
eventHandler((event) => {});
```

What is beatiful in h3 is that all you have to do to make a reponse, is to simply return it! Responses can be simple string, JSON objects, data buffers, streams or standard [Web Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/Response).

```ts
return { message: "⚡️ Tadaa!" };
```

Finally, we use [unjs/listhen](https://listhen.unjs.io) CLI using npx to auto install it. Listhen will automatically setup and start our webserver with zero configuration and adds on-the-fly TypeScript support to your experience!

## Installing h3

You can import h3 either as an npm package or from CDN.

### Install as npm package

You can use this method for Node.js and Bun.

::pm-install{name="h3"}

::

### Import from CDN

You can directly import h3 from CDN. This method can be used for Bun, Deno and other runtimes such as Cloudflare Workers (you need an adapter).

```js
import { createApp, eventHandler, toWebhandler } from "https://esm.sh/h3";

export const app = createApp();

export const handler = toWebHandler(app);
```
