# App Instance

> App instance is the core of a h3 server.

The core of a h3 server is an `app` instance. It is the core of the server that handles incoming requests. You can use app instance to register event handlers.

## Initializing an app

You can create a new h3 app instance using [`createApp`](/utilities/create-app) utility:

```js [app.mjs]
import { createApp } from "h3";

const app = createApp();
```

## Setting global options

You can pass global app configuration when initializing an app.

**Example:** Create an app with verbose logging enabled.

```js
const app = createApp({
  debug: true,
});
```

## Setting global hooks

When initializing an h3 app, you can register global hooks:

- `onError`
- `onRequest`
- `onBeforeResponse`
- `onAfterResponse`

These hooks are called for every request and can be used to add global logic to your app such as logging, error handling, etc.

```js
const app = createApp({
  onError: (error) => {
    console.error(error);
  },
  onRequest: (event) => {
    console.log("Request:", event.path);
  },
});
```

## Registering event handlers

You can register [event handlers](/guide/event-handler) to app instance using the `app.use`:

```js
app.use(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Hello world!";
  }),
);
```

This will register the event handler to the app instance and will be called for every request starting with the prefix `/hello`. This means that the event handler will be called for `/hello`, `/hello/world`, `/hello/123`, etc.

You can define multiple event handlers for the same route. h3 will try to to call them one by one in order of registration until one of them returns a response. This is called `stack runner`.

```js
app.use(
  "/",
  eventHandler((event) => {
    return "First";
  }),
);
app.use(
  "/",
  eventHandler((event) => {
    return "Second";
  }),
);
```

In this example, the first event handler will be called for every request starting with `/hello` and the second one will never be called.

However, if you do not return a response from the first event handler, the second one will be called. This is useful to have a _middleware_ pattern.

```js
app.use(
  "/",
  eventHandler((event) => {
    console.log("First");
    // No response returned
  }),
);
app.use(
  "/",
  eventHandler((event) => {
    return "Second";
  }),
);
```

If all handlers get called and no response is returned, h3 will end the request with 404 status response.

> [!NOTE]
> Using an empty `return` or `return undefined` make a [`404 Not Found`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/404) status response.
> Also using `return null` will make a [`204 No Content`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/204) status reponse.

> [!TIP]
> Use `return {}` or `return ""` or `return true` to make an explicit response.

## Event handler options

The method `use` accepts an optional `options` object as third argument:

```js
app.use(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Hello world!";
  }),
  {
    // Options
  },
);
```

### `matcher`

You can define a custom matcher function to have more advanced logic for matching requests but simple than a router.

For example, you can match only odd URLs, `/1`, `/3`, `/5`, etc.:

```js
app.use(
  "/",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Odd URLs only";
  }),
  {
    match: (url) => {
      return url.substr(1) % 2;
    },
  },
);
```

> [!WARNING]
> Do not use the custom matcher as a router. It is not designed for that purpose. Use a [router](/guide/router) instead.

### `lazy`

You can provide an async function that h3 will load on first time a request matching the route is received. It's useful for dynamic imports to reduce startup time.

```js
app.use("/big", () => import("./big-handler"), { lazy: true });
```

This reduce the startup time because the runtime have less code to load and parse when starting the server.

You can use a [syntax sugar](#lazy-event-handlers) over this option using [`defineLazyEventHandler`](/concepts/utilities) or [`lazyEventHandler`](/concepts/utilities) utilities.

## Internals

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This details are mainly informational. **never** directly use internals for production applications!

h3 app instance has some additional properties. However it is usually not recommended to directly access them unless you know what are you doing!

- `app.stack`: An ordered array of currently registered event handlers.
  - Each item has `route` and `handler` properties.
- `app.options`: Global options object provided when initializing the app.
- `app.handler`: Direct stack handler function (**unsafe to directly call**).
