---
icon: fluent:target-24-regular
---

# Event Handler

> Event handler define application logic.

After creating an [app instance](/guide/app), you can start defining your application logic using event handlers.

An event handler is a function that receive an `Event` instance and returns a response. You can compare it to controllers in other frameworks.

## Defining event handlers

You can define event handlers using `defineEventHandler` or `eventHandler` utilities:

> [!NOTE]
> You can use `defineEventHandler` and `eventHandler` interchangeably. They are aliases. You can use the one you prefer but **stick to it** for consistency.

```js
import { defineEventHandler } from "h3";

defineEventHandler((event) => {
  return "Response";
});
```

The callback function can be sync or async:

```js
defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  return "Response";
});
```

### Object Syntax

You can use an object syntax in `defineEventHandler` for more flexible options.

```js
defineEventHandler({
  onRequest: [],
  onBeforeResponse: []
  handler: (event) =>  {
    return "Response";
  },
})
```

## Responses Types

Values returned from event handlers are automatically converted to responses. It can be:

- JSON serializable value. If returning a JSON object or serializable value, it will be stringified and sent with default `application/json` content-type.
- `string`: Sent as-is using default `application/html` content-type.
- `null`: h3 with end response with `204 - No Content` status code.
- [Web `ReadableStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream) or [node `Readable`](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#readable-streams)
- [Web `ArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) or [node `Buffer`](https://nodejs.org/api/buffer.html#buffer)
- [Web Fetch Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/Response)
- [`Error`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) instance. It's supported but **recommended** to throw errors instead of returning them using `createError` utility.

Any of above values could also be wrapped in a [`Promise`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise). This means that you can return a `Promise` from your event handler and h3 will wait for it to resolve before sending the response.

**Example:** Send HTML response:

```js
app.use(defineEventHandler(async (event) => "<h1>Hello world!</h1>"));
```

**Example:** Send JSON response:

```js
app.use(
  "/api",
  defineEventHandler(async (event) => ({ url: event.node.req.url })),
);
```

**Example:** Send a promise:

```js
app.use(
  defineEventHandlers(async (event) => {
    return new Promise((resolve) => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        resolve({ url: event.node.req.url });
      }, 1000);
    });
  }),
);
```

## Error Handling

You can easily control the error returned by using the `createError` utility.

```js
import { createError, defineEventHandler } from "h3";

app.use(
  "/validate",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    throw createError({
      status: 400,
      statusMessage: "Bad Request",
      message: "Invalid user input",
      data: { field: "email" }
    });
  }),
);
```

This will end the request with `400 - Bad Request` status code and the following JSON response:

```json
{
  "status": 400,
  "message": "An error occurred"
}
```

### String vs. Object Errors

When creating an error using `createError`, you also have the option to pass a string instead of an object. Doing so will set the `message` property of the error. In this case, the `statusCode` will default to `500`.

```js
import { createError, defineEventHandler } from "h3";

app.use(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    throw createError("An error occurred");
  }),
);
```

> [!TIP]
> Typically, `message` contains a brief, human-readable description of the error, while `statusMessage` is specific to HTTP responses and describes the status text related to the response status code.
> In a client-server context, using a short `statusMessage` is recommended because it can be accessed on the client side. Otherwise, a `message` passed to `createError` on the server will not propagate to the client (you can use `data` instead). Consider avoiding to put dynamic user input to the message to avoid potential security issues.

### Internal errors

If during calling an event handler an error with `new Error()` will be thrown (without `createError`), h3 will automatically catch as a [`500 - Internal Server Error`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/500) status response considering it an unhandled error.

```js
app.use(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    // Do NOT do this and use createError()!
    throw new Error("Something went wrong");
  }),
);
```

## Lazy event handlers

You can define lazy event handlers using `defineLazyEventHandler` or `lazyEventHandler` utilities. This allow you to define some one-time logic that will be executed only once when the first request matching the route is received.

A lazy event handler must return an event handler:

```js
import { defineLazyEventHandler } from "h3";

app.use(
  defineLazyEventHandler(() => {
    console.log("This will be executed only once");
    // This will be executed only once
    return defineEventHandler((event) => {
      // This will be executed on every request
      return "Response";
    });
  }),
);
```

This is useful to define some one-time logic such as configuration, class initialization, heavy computation, etc.

## Middleware

Event handlers that don't return any value act as middleware. They can be used to add side effects to your application such as logging, caching, etc or to modify the request or response.

> [!TIP]
> Middleware pattern is **not recommended** for h3 in general. Side effects can affect global application performance and make tracing logic harder.
> Instead use h3 composables and object syntax hooks.

Similar to normal event handlers, you can define middleware using `defineEventHandler` or `eventHandler` utilities:

```js
defineEventHandler((event) => {
  console.log(`Middleware. Path: ${event.path}`);
});
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Middleware **must not** return any value or directly return a response for `event`.
> If you return a response, it will act as a normal event handler!

### Registering middleware

Then, you can register middleware to [app instance](/guide/app) using the `use` method:

```js
app.use(
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    console.log("Middleware 1");
  }),
);
app.use(
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    console.log("Middleware 2");
  }),
);
app.use(
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Response";
  }),
);
```

You can define as much middleware as you need. They will be called in order of registration.

## Converting to h3 handler

There are situations that you might want to convert an event handler or utility made for Node.js or another framework to h3.
There are built-in utils to do this.!

### Converting from Node.js handlers

If you have a legacy request handler with `(req, res) => {}` syntax made for Node.js, you can use `fromNodeListener` to convert it to an h3 event handler.

```js [app.mjs]
import { createApp, fromNodeMiddleware } from "h3";

import exampleMiddleware from "example-node-middleware";

export const app = createApp();

app.use(fromNodeListener(exampleMiddleware()));
```

> [!TIP]
> For example, this will help you to use [Vite Middleware mode](https://vitejs.dev/config/server-options.html#server-middlewaremode) with h3 apps.

### Converting from Web handlers

You can convert a fetch-like function (with `Request => Response` signuture) into an h3 event handler using `fromWebHandler` util.

```js [app.mjs]
import { webHandler } from "web-handler"; // This package doesn't exist, it's just an example
import { createApp, fromWebHandler } from "h3";

export const app = createApp();

app.use(fromWebHandler(webHandler));
```
