---
icon: fluent:target-24-regular
---

# Event Handler

> Event handler defines application logic.

After creating an [h3 app instance](/guide/app), you can start defining your application logic using event handlers.

An event handler is a function that receives an [H3Event](/guide/event) context and returns a response.

## Defining Event handlers

You can define typed event handlers using `defineEventHandler`.

> [!NOTE]
> Using `defineEventHandler` is optional. When using [app methods](/guide/app#h3-methods) to register routes or middleware, the type hints will be still available.

```js
import { defineEventHandler } from "h3";

defineEventHandler((event) => "Response");
```

The callback function can be sync or async:

```js
defineEventHandler(async (event) => "Response");
```

### Object Syntax

You can use an object syntax in `defineEventHandler` for more flexible options.

```js
defineEventHandler({
  onRequest: [],
  onBeforeResponse: []
  handler: () => "Response",
})
```

## Responses Types

Values returned from event handlers are automatically converted to http response.

If returned value from event handler is a [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) or from an [async function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function), h3 will wait for it to resolve before sending the response.

### `null` or `undefined`

Sends a response with empty body in [route handlers](/guide/routing#adding-routes) or goes to next handler for [middleware handlers](/guide/routing#adding-middleware).

> [!TIP]
> If there is no `return` statement in event handler, it is same as `return undefined`.

### String

Returning a string value, sends it as plain text body.

> [!NOTE]
> If not setting `content-type`, it can default to `text/plain;charset=UTF-8`.

**Example:** Send HTML response

```ts
app.get("/", (event) => {
  event.res.headers.set("Content-Type", "text/html;charset=UTF-8");
  return "<h1>hello world</h1>";
});
```

### JSON serializable value

Returning a [JSON](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON) serializable value (**object**, **array**, **number** or **boolean**), it will be stringified using [JSON.stringiy()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) and sent with default `application/json` content-type.

**Example:**

```ts
app.get("/", (event) => ({ hello: "world" }));
```

> [!TIP]
> You can add `toJSON()` method in object to customize serialization behavior. Check [MDN docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) for more info.

### `Response`

Send a standard web [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/Response).

**Example:**

```ts
app.get("/", (event) => Response.json({ hello: "world" }));
```

> [!NOTE]
> When sending a `Response`, any headers that set using `event.res.headers` before, will be merged as default headers. `event.res.{status/statusText}` will be ignored.
> <br>
> For performance reasons, it is best to only set headers only from final `Response`.

### `ReadableStream` or `Readable`

Send a standard web [ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream) or node [Readable](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#readable-streams).

### `ArrayBuffer` or `Uint8Array` or `Buffer`

Send binary [ArrayBuffer](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), [Uint8Array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) or node [Buffer](https://nodejs.org/api/buffer.html#buffer).

`content-length` header will be automatically set.

### `Error`

Retuning an [Error](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) instance will send it.

It is better to `throw` errors instead of returning them and using `createError` utility.

### `BigInt`

Value will be sent as stringified version of BigInt number.

> [!NOTE]
> Returning a JSON object, does not allows BigInt serialization. You need to implement `toJSON`. Check [MDN docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) for more info.

### `Blob`

Send a standard web [Blob](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Blob) as stream.

`Content-type` and `Content-Length` headers will be automatically set.

### `Symbol` or `Function`

Returning Symbol or Function has undetermined behavior. Current version sends a string-like representation of unknown Symbols and Functions but it might be changed to throw an error, never return them. There are some internal known Symbols h3 internally uses (can change in future):

- `Symbol.for("h3.notFound")`: Indicate no route is found to throw a 404 error.
- `Symbol.for("h3.handled")`: Indicate request is somehow handled and h3 should not continue (Node.js specific).

## Error Handling

You can easily control the error returned by using the `createError` utility.

```js
import { createError } from "h3";

app.get("/error", (event) => {
  throw createError({
    status: 400,
    statusMessage: "Bad Request",
    message: "Invalid user input",
    data: { field: "email" },
  });
});
```

This will end the request with `400 - Bad Request` status code and the following JSON response:

```json
{
  "statusCode": 400,
  "statusMessage": "Bad Request",
  "stack": [],
  "data": {
    "field": "email"
  }
}
```

### String vs. Object Errors

When creating an error using `createError`, you also have the option to pass a string instead of an object. Doing so will set the `message` property of the error. In this case, the `statusCode` will default to `500`.

```js
import { createError } from "h3";

app.get("/error", (event) => {
  throw createError("An error occurred");
});
```

> [!TIP]
> Typically, `message` contains a brief, human-readable description of the error, while `statusMessage` is specific to HTTP responses and describes the status text related to the response status code.
> In a client-server context, using a short `statusMessage` is recommended because it can be accessed on the client side. Otherwise, a `message` passed to `createError` on the server will not propagate to the client (you can use `data` instead). Consider avoiding to put dynamic user input to the message to avoid potential security issues.

### Internal Errors

If during calling an event handler an error with `new Error()` will be thrown (without `createError`), h3 will automatically catch as a [`500 - Internal Server Error`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/500) status response considering it an unhandled error.

```js
app.get("/error", (event) => {
  // Do NOT do this and use createError()!
  throw new Error("Something went wrong");
});
```

## Lazy Handlers

You can define lazy event handlers using `defineLazyEventHandler`. This allow you to define some one-time logic that will be executed only once when the first request matching the route is received.

A lazy event handler must return an event handler:

```js
import { defineLazyEventHandler } from "h3";

app.get(
  "/lazy",
  defineLazyEventHandler(() => {
    console.log("This will be executed only once");
    // This will be executed only once
    return (event) => {
      // This will be executed on every request
      return "Response";
    };
  }),
);
```

This is useful to define some one-time logic such as configuration, class initialization, heavy computation, etc.

## Middleware Handlers

Event handlers that don't return any value act as middleware. They can be used to add side effects to your application such as logging, caching, etc or to modify the request or response.

Middleware handlers should be registered using `app.use()`. Event handlers in normal routes that do not return a value (e.g `app.get()`), will cause a 404 error.

If you return a value from middleware handlers, it will act as a normal event handler and sent it as response.

**Example:** Simple request logging middleware:

```js
app.use((event) => {
  console.log(`[${event.req.method}] ${event.req.url}`);
  // [do not return a value]
});
```

You can define as much middleware as you need. They will be called in order of registration.

:read-more{to="/guide/routing#adding-middleware"}

## Converting to H3 Handler

There are situations that you might want to convert an event handler or utility made for Node.js or another framework to h3.
There are built-in utils to do this.!

### Converting from Web Handlers

Request handlers with [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) => [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) syntax can be natively converted into h3 event handlers

```js
import { H3, fromWebHandler } from "h3";

export const app = new H3();

const webHandler = (request) => new Response("👋 Hello!"));

// Using fromWebHandler utiliy
app.get("/web", fromWebHandler(webHandler));

// Using simple wrapper
app.get("/web", event => webHandler(event.req));
```

### Converting from Node.js Handlers

If you have a legacy request handler with `(req, res) => {}` syntax made for Node.js, you can use `fromNodeHandler` to convert it to an h3 event handler.

> [!NOTE]
> Node.js event handlers can only run within Node.js server runtime!

```js
import { H3, fromNodeHandler } from "h3";

export const app = new H3();

const nodeHandler = (req, res) => {
  res.end("Node handlers work!");
};

app.get("/web", fromNodeHandler(nodeHandler));
```
