# Router

> Split your application using routes.

Using h3 router allows more advanced and convenient routing system such as parameters and HTTP methods while the [app instance](/guide/app) itself only allows static prefix matching.

> [!NOTE]
> Internally h3 uses [unjs/radix3](https://radix3.unjs.io) for route matching.

## Usage

First, you need to create a router using `createRouter` utility and add it to app stack.

```js
import { createApp, defineEventHandler, createRouter } from "h3";

const app = createApp();
const router = createRouter();
app.use(router;)
```

Then, you can register a route to the router using a method where the name is the HTTP method:

```js
router.get(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Hello world!";
  }),
);
```

In this example, we register a route for the `GET` method. This means that the event handler will be called only for `GET` requests for the `/hello` route. If you try to send a `POST` or a request to `/hello/world`, the event handler will not be called.

> [!NOTE]
> You can still use `use` to register an event handler to the router. It will be called for every HTTP methods.

This means that you can register multiple event handlers for the same route with different methods:

```js
router
  .get(
    "/hello",
    defineEventHandler((event) => {
      return "GET Hello world!";
    }),
  )
  .post(
    "/hello",
    defineEventHandler((event) => {
      return "POST Hello world!";
    }),
  );
```

## Route params

You can define parameters in your routes using `:` prefix:

```js
router.get(
  "/hello/:name",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return `Hello ${event.context.params.name}!`;
  }),
);
```

In this example, the `name` parameter will be available in the `event.context.params` object.

If you send a request to `/hello/world`, the event handler will return `Hello world!`.

> [!NOTE]
> You can use as many parameters as you want in your routes.

## Wildcard matcher

Instead of named params, you can use `*` for unnamed

```js
router.get(
  "/hello/*",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return `Hello ${event.context.params._}!`;
  }),
);
```

This will match both `/hello` and sub routes such as `/hello/world` or `/hello/123`. But it will only match one level of sub routes.

You can access to the wildcard content using `event.context.params._` where `_` is a string containing the wildcard content.

If you need to match multiple levels of sub routes, you can use `**` prefix:

```js
router.get(
  "/hello/**",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return `Hello ${event.context.params._}!`;
  }),
);
```

This will match `/hello`, `/hello/world`, `/hello/123`, `/hello/world/123`, etc.

> [!NOTE]
> Param `_` will store the full wildcard content as a single string.

## Nested Routers

You can nest routers to create a tree of routers. This is useful to split your application into multiple parts like the API and the website.

```js
import { createRouter, createApp } from "h3";

export const app = createApp();

const websiteRouter = createRouter().get(
  "/",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Hello world!";
  }),
);

const apiRouter = createRouter().get(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    return "Hello API!";
  }),
);

websiteRouter.use("/api/**", useBase("/api", apiRouter.handler));

app.use(websiteRouter);
```

We create two routers. The first one, called `websiteRouter` is the main one. The second one, we create a second router called `apiRouter`.

Then, we connect the `apiRouter` to the `websiteRouter` using `use` and a wildcard to be sure that every routes starting and HTTP methods with `/api` will be handled by the `apiRouter`.

> [!NOTE]
> Do not forget to use `.handler` to get the event handler from the router.

`useBase` is used to add a prefix to each routes of the router. In this example, we add `/api` prefix to each routes of the `apiRouter`. So, the route `/hello` will be `/api/hello`.

Finally, we register the `websiteRouter` to the `app` instance.
