---
icon: solar:route-linear
---

## Adding Routes

H3 app instance has a built in router system to register routes matching patterns with parameter or specific HTTP method.

::tip
Router is powered by [🌳 rou3](https://github.com/unjs/rou3), an ultra fast and tiny route matcher engine.
::

**Example:** Register a route to match requests to the `/hello` endpoint with HTTP **GET** method:

```js
// Method 1: using app.[method]
app.get("/hello", () => "Hello world!");

// Method 2: using app.on(method)
app.on("GET", "/hello", () => "Hello world!");
```

You can register multiple event handlers for the same route with different methods:

```js
app
  .get("/hello", () => "GET Hello world!")
  .post("/hello", () => "POST Hello world!");
```

You can also use `app.all` method to register a route accepting any HTTP method:

```js
app.all("/hello", (event) => `This is a ${event.req.method} request!`);
```

### Route Params

You can define parameters in your routes using `:` prefix:

```js
app.get("/hello/:name", (event) => {
  return `Hello ${event.context.params.name}!`;
});
```

In this example, the `name` parameter will be available in the `event.context.params` object.

If you send a request to `/hello/world`, the event handler will respond `Hello world!`.

Instead of named params, you can use `*` for unnamed and **optional** params:

```js
app.get("/hello/*", (event) => `Hello!`);
```

### Catch-all param

Adding `/hello/:name` route will match `/hello/world` or `/hello/123`. But it will not match `/hello/foo/bar`.

If you need to match multiple levels of sub routes, you can use `**` prefix:

```js
app.get("/hello/**", (event) => `Hello ${event.context.params._}!`);
```

This will match `/hello`, `/hello/world`, `/hello/123`, `/hello/world/123`, etc.

> [!NOTE]
> Param `_` will store the full wildcard content as a single string.

## Adding Middleware

You can register [middleware handlers](/guide/event-handler#middleware-handlers) to app instance using the `app.use`.

**Example:** Register global middleware that calls on every route.

```js
app.use((event) => {
  console.log(event);
});
```

**Example:** Register routed middleware that matches specific routes only starting with the prefix `/blog` (i.e. `/blog`, `/blog/world`, `/blog/123`, etc.).

```js
app.use("/blog/**", (event) => {
  console.log(event);
});
```

> [!IMPORTANT] Running order of different kinds of middleware is different:
>
> - Global [`onRequest` hook](/guide/app#h3-app-options) will be always called before
> - Global middleware registered without route pattern will always be called **by the order of registration** before any other handler.
> - Routed middleware with route pattern, will be called after global middleware **by the order of less to the most specific pattern**.
> - If no middleware handles response, normal router method matcher will be used.

You can define multiple middleware.

```js
app.use(() => "First");
app.use(() => "Second");
```

In the example above, the first event handler will be called for every request and the **second one will never be called**.

However, if you do not return a response from the first event handler, the second one will be called. This is useful to have a _middleware_ pattern.

```js
app.use((event) => {
  console.log("First");
});

app.use((event) => {
  console.log("Second");
});
```

If all handlers get called and no response is returned, h3 will continue with the main router handlers.
