---
title: H3 App
description: Learn more about H3 app usage
---

Every H3 server has at least one app instance. It is the beating hearth of your server.

## Initialing H3 App

You can create a new h3 app instance using `createApp` utility:

```js [app.mjs]
import { createApp } from "h3";

const app = createApp();
```

You can also pass global app configurtions when initializing an app:

```js
const app = createApp({
  debug: true,
});
```

## Adding Event Handlers

After initializing app instance, we need to register [Event Handlers](/concepts/event-handler) to our app to handle the logic.

In order to register event handlers, we have to use `app.use()` method. Each handler can be registred without prefix (middleware) or with a static route prefix.

When an HTTP request comes, H3, tries to call our registred handlers (that match the prefix) one by one (**in order that we add them**) until one of them ends the request. This is called "stack runner".

**Example:** Resgister a simple `/hello` route:

```js
app.use(
  "/hello",
  eventHandler(() => "Hello World"),
);
```

**Note:** Above example matches any request starting with `/hello`, including `/hello` but also `/hello/world` and `/hello/you`.

If event handlers don't register a prefix, they will match every request.

**Example:** Simple request logger

```js
app.use(
  eventHandler((event) => {
    console.log("Request:", event.path);
    // Since we don't return anything, h3, goes to the next middleware
  }),
);

app.use(
  "/hello",
  eventHandler(() => "Hello World"),
);
```

**Note:** Avoid adding global middleware as much as possible. They will be soon the enemy of your application performance and make scaling project size harder as global logic can become complex and tricky to manage!

There are couple of advanced option you can also provide when registering an event handler as last object.

### Custom Matcher

If you need matching logic more advanced than prefix matching but simpler than using a router, you can use custom `match` option:

**Example** Only match odd number routes (`/2`, `/4`, `/8`, ...)

```js
app.use(
  "/",
  eventHandler(() => "This is odd!"),
  { match: (url) => url.substr(1) % 2 },
);
```

### Lazy Matcher

You can provide a callback function that h3 uses on first time matching handler to load it. It is particulary useful for dynamic imports to reduce server startup time.

**Example:**

```js
app.use("/big", () => import("./big-handler"), { lazy: true });
```

## Sending Responses

When a request comes, h3 app asyncly calls matching handlers and waits for them one-by-one. The first handler that sends a response by directly returning a value or using a response utility, steps h3 from running the rest of handlers.

If all handlers get called and there is still no response, h3 will automatically throw a 404 error.

The simplest way to handle response, is to directly return a value from event handlers. See [Event Handlers](/concepts/event-handler#sending-responses) for possible values.

## Event Handling

When handling a request, if one of the handlers throws an error, H3 app will automatically catch it and renders error. You can override default error handler using `onError` option.

<!-- TODO: Examples -->

## Global Hooks

When initializing an H3 app, you can register global hooks:

- `onError`
- `onRequest`
- `onBeforeResponse`
- `onAfterResponse`

<!-- TODO: Examples -->

## App Properties (advanced)

H3 app instance has some additional propertier. However it is usually not recommanded to directly access them unless you know what are you doing!

- `app.stack`: An ordered array of currently registred event handlers.
  - Each item has `route` and `handler` properties.
- `app.options`: Global options object provided when initializing the app
- `app.handler`: Direct stack handler function (unsafe)
