---
title: Utilities
description: Manipulate event with ease.
---

Direct use of the [`event`](/concepts/event) object can become tricky and error-prone. That's why H3 provides a set of utilities to help you to manipulate the event object. Utilities are composable, which means you can use them together to create more complex utilities.

Composable utilities have several performance benefits over injecting them to `event` (as method, getter or setter) or `app` instances in global handler commonly used in Node.js frameworks, such as Express. This concept means only required code is evaluated and bundled, and the rest of the utilities can be tree-shaken when not used.

Utilities are grouped in several categories:

- Body
- Cache
- Cookie
- Fingerprint
- Proxy
- Request
- Response
- Route
- Sanitize
- Session
- Static

All of them accept an [`event`](/concepts/event) object as their first argument and sometimes an additional argument.

:read-more{to="/concepts/utilities"}

## Usage

In [router page](/concepts/router), we've manipulated the `event` object directly to get the param from the route. With the utility [`getRouterParam`](/concepts/utilities), we can do the same thing but in a more elegant way:

```js
import { defineEventHandler, getRouterParam } from "h3";

app.use(
  "/hello/:name",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    const name = getRouterParam(event, "name");
    return `Hello ${name}!`;
  }),
);
```

You could want to get the body of a POST request. You can do it with the [`readBody`](/concepts/utilities) utility:

```js
import { defineEventHandler, readBody } from "h3";

app.use(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
    const body = await readBody(event);
    return `Hello ${body.name}!`;
  }),
);
```

> [!NOTE]
> This will only works for HTTP method that has a body, such as POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE. For HTTP method that doesn't have a body, such as GET, HEAD, OPTIONS, the utility will throw a `405 HTTP method is not allowed` error.

You can also manipulate the status code of the response with the [`setResponseStatus`](/concepts/utilities) utility:

```js
import { defineEventHandler, setResponseStatus } from "h3";

app.use(
  "/hello",
  defineEventHandler((event) => {
    setResponseStatus(event, 201); // Response will be 201 Created
    return "Hello world!";
  }),
);
```

And there is a lot more utilities to help you to manipulate the event object. You can find them in the [API documentation](/concepts/utilities).
