---
title: Quick start
description:
---

Getting started with H3 is super simple and requires no dependencies or template! In this example we will create a Hello World application using h3 router.

First create an `app.ts` file:

```ts [app.ts]
import { createApp, createRouter, eventHandler } from "h3";

export const app = createApp();

const router = createRouter();
app.use(router);

router.get(
  "/",
  eventHandler((event) => {
    return { message: "⚡️ Tadaa!" };
  }),
);
```

Now run the development server using [unjs/listhen](https://listhen.unjs.io):

```bash [terminal]
npx --yes listhen -w --open ./app.ts
```

And tadaa! We have a web server running locally.

## What happend?

Okay, let's now break down our hello world example:

We first created an H3 app instance using `createApp()`. `app` is a tiny server capable of matching requests, generating response and handling lifecycle hooks (such as errors):

```ts
export const app = createApp();
```

Then we create an H3 router instance that can match route patterns and http methods using [unjs/radix3](https://radix3.unjs.io) and register it for app as main handler:

```ts
const router = createRouter();

app.use(router);
```

Now it it time to add our first endpoint. In H3, request handlers can be defined using `defineEventHandler` or `eventHandler` helpers (they are aliases). Using wrappers, h3 can supercharge your code with better typehints and future compatibility.

```ts
eventHandler((event) => {});
```

What is beatiful in h3 is that all you have to do to make a reponse, is to simply return it! Responses can be simple string, JSON objects, data buffers, streams or standard [Web Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/Response).

```ts
return { message: "⚡️ Tadaa!" };
```

Finally, we use [unjs/listhen](https://listhen.unjs.io) CLI using npx to auto install it. Listhen will automatically setup and start our webserver with zero configuration and adds on-the-fly TypeScript support to your experience!
